---
layout: post
title: Make it work: wifi driver BCM43142 
published: true
tag: fedora
---

Wifi driver `BCM43142` won't work in Fedora 30. Here is how to solve that.

1. Add the RPM Fusion repositories to your machine with `sudo dnf install https://download1.rpmfusion.org/free/fedora/rpmfusion-free-release-$(rpm -E %fedora).noarch.rpm https://download1.rpmfusion.org/nonfree/fedora/rpmfusion-nonfree-release-$(rpm -E %fedora).noarch.rpm` 

2. Update `sudo dnf update`. 

3. Reboot  `sudo dnf reboot`.

4. Install the tainted driver with `sudo dnf -y install kmod-wl`.

5. Reboot again. You will see your wifi network but you will be unable to connect to it.

6. Go [here](https://www.rpmfind.net/) to find and download the appropriate `wpa_supplicant` package for your computer (for me it was `wpa_supplicant-2.7-1.fc29.x86_64.rpm`)

> Update: rpmfind will only find packages for the latest three Fedora versions, among other rpm-based distros. I think the needed `wpa_supplicant` is [here](https://archives.fedoraproject.org/pub/archive/fedora/linux/releases/29/Workstation/x86_64/os/Packages/w/) 



How the hell do I know that this will work? 

Short answer: experience.

Long answer: 

>Multiple users of wireless network adapters supported by the proprietary broadcom-wl driver have reported that it does not work reliably in *Fedora 30*. PLEASE NOTE that Fedora does not provide or support this proprietary driver; we are providing this note only as *a courtesy* as we are aware that many people acquire the driver from a third party and use it on Fedora.

>The problem seems to be that a new feature in `wpa_supplicant` that was enabled in Fedora 30 confuses the broadcom-wl driver. As the driver is not open source we cannot provide a fixed version of it, and we will not disable a useful `wpa-supplicant` feature just to make a proprietary driver work correctly.

>To help out folks with affected devices, Davide Caratti is providing unofficial rebuilds of `wpa_supplicant` with the feature in question disabled. You can enable his COPR repository by running `sudo dnf copr enable dcaratti/wpa_supplicant`, and then updating your system should install his rebuild, if it is currently up-to-date compared to the version in the official repositories. With this rebuild installed, the wireless adapter should work reliably. 
>
>(From [here](https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Common_F30_bugs).) 

The problem is that if we try to enable this COPR repo, it won't work...

> Update: ...at least around the date this post was written... I think in Fedora 34 there were no more problems with this driver but that laptop is dead for now so I can't say for sure.
